=head1 NAME

Class::MakeMethods::Docs::ReadMe - About Class::MakeMethods 


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an updated release of Class::MakeMethods, for distribution
through CPAN. This release includes the Class::MakeMethods::Template
and Class::MakeMethods::Emulator modules which were previously
distributed separately.


=head1 MOTIVATION

Here's the "elevator pitch" for the module:

  By passing arguments to "use Class::MakeMethods ..." statements,
  you can select from a library of hundreds of common types of
  methods, which are dynamically generated and installed as
  subroutines in your module, simplifying the code for your class.


=head1 SEE ALSO

Documentation is available in POD format throughout the distribution;
L<Class::MakeMethods> is a good starting place. 

You may browse the latest distribution online here:

  http://search.cpan.org/author/EVO/Class-MakeMethods/

Further information and module documentation is available here: 

  http://www.evoscript.org/Class-MakeMethods/


=head1 INSTALLATION

You should be able to install this module using the CPAN shell
interface:

  perl -MCPAN -e 'install Class::MakeMethods'

If this module has not yet been posted to your local CPAN mirror, you
may also retrieve the current distribution from the above web address and
follow the normal "gunzip", "tar xf", "cd", "perl Makefile.PL && make
test && sudo make install" procedure or your local equivalent.


=head1 FEEDBACK

Suggestions and comments would be much appreciated. You may send 
feedback, bug reports, and support requests to the author:

  M. Simon Cavalletto, simonm@cavalletto.org.


=head1 LICENSE

You may use, modify, and distribute this software under the same terms as Perl.

=cut
